---
layout: post
title:  "Gumbo"
author: JD Black
categories: [MainDish]
tags: [Cajun]
# image: assets/images/12.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

This gumbo recipe was taken from Emeril Lagasse with very little adjustments.  His recipe was a pure seafood gumbo, but we like to mix in a little sausage and chicken when we make it.  I don’t include oysters, because good oysters should never be cooked in my opinion.  It takes some work (preparation is your friend!), but the result is a rich and tasty gumbo everyone enjoys.

## Ingredients
- ¾ cup vegetable oil
- 1 cup all-purpose flour
- 1 ½ cups onions, chopped fine
- ¾ cups green bell peppers, chopped fine
- ¾ cups celery, chopped fine
- 2 Tbsp fresh garlic, minced
- 1 (12 oz) bottle Abita Amber
- 6 cups Shrimp Stock
- 5-10 sprigs fresh thyme, to taste
- 2 bay leaves
- 1 cup crab meat (or claws if you can find them)
- 2 tsp Worcestershire sauce
- 1 ½ tsp salt
- ½ tsp cayenne pepper
- 1 lb medium shrimp, peeled and deveined
- 1 lb white fish fillets, your favorite
- 1 Tbsp Emeril’s Original Essence
- 1 lb smoked sausage
- ½ lb blackened seasoned chicken breasts, sliced thin
- ¼ cup fresh parsley, chopped
- ½ cup green onions, chopped
- White rice, for serving

## Instructions
1. Using the vegetable oil and flour, make a light brown roux (color of milk chocolate).
1. Add onions, bell peppers, and celery.  Stir for 5 minutes then add garlic.  Cook for 30 seconds then add the beer and shrimp stock.  1. Season with thyme, bay leaves, Worcestershire, salt, and cayenne.  Bring to a boil, then reduce to a simmer for 1 hour, skimming any foam or oil that rises to the surface.
1. Grill smoked sausage and chicken to get a light char.  Cut into small pieces and add to gumbo.
1. Season shrimp and fish with Essence and add to gumbo and add to gumbo.  Add crab to gumbo.  Cook until shrimp and fish are done, stirring regularly.
1. Serve in a bowl over a scoop of rice.  Garnish with parsley and green onions.  You may also toast sliced French bread to accompany.






